---
id: 570
title: Hey, Siri
date: 2015-02-09T09:46:21+00:00
author: Zaid Syed
layout: post
guid: http://zaidsyed.com/blog/?p=570
permalink: /2015/02/09/hey-siri/
---
Here in Hong Kong, we don&#8217;t have centralized heating systems like in the US and other countries. It&#8217;s never really been as cold in Hong Kong as it is these days, and some of the older structures here lack proper insulation.

So it&#8217;s understandable that last night, while I was in bed, I remembered I had to set a reminder to hand in the essay for the next day. My iPhone was charging, next to the pillow<sup id="fnref-570-1"><a href="#fn-570-1" rel="footnote">1</a></sup>. I was all covered in my blankets<sup id="fnref-570-2"><a href="#fn-570-2" rel="footnote">2</a></sup>, and I did _not_ want to reach out into the cold air and hold an iPhone made of cold aluminum in my bare hands.

What did I do? For the first time Siri applied in my life for a (fairly) practical reason.
  
&#8220;Hey, Siri.&#8221; I muttered in a groggy voice. A resounding _beep_ came in response.
  
&#8220;Remind me to hand in essay tomorrow at 10:05.&#8221;
  
&#8220;Here&#8217;s your reminder. Shall I create it?&#8221;
  
I turned my head towards my phone. Sure enough, a Reminders output in the Siri panel. It read &#8220;Hand in essay&#8221; and was set to the correct time.
  
&#8220;Yeah.&#8221;

I love it when it just _works_.

**UPDATE:** I just realized that [Joe Caiati](http://joecaiati.info) did exactly the [same post](http://joecaiati.info/post/109878741105/hey-siri), a few days ago. A complete coincidence.

<li id="fn-570-1">
  We don&#8217;t have much space in Hong Kong apartments either, so I don&#8217;t have a bedside desk or anything. My iPhone is often connected to an extension cord next to my bed, and charges next to my pillow.&#160;<a href="#fnref-570-1" rev="footnote">&#8617;</a>
</li>
<li id="fn-570-2">
  I hope this next bit is understandable&#8230;&#160;<a href="#fnref-570-2" rev="footnote">&#8617;</a> </fn></footnotes>